a social media trend as helping
african-american women fight the growing
obesity epidemic by lacing up their
sneakers women behind black girls run
are inspiring a movement
an online movement focused on helping
black women take control of their health
is spreading like wildfire black girls
run helps women make healthy living a
priority we're introducing you to some
of the women inspired by the program who
are now helping others reach their goals
how did you run that first cut off in 70
seconds Jhene it's a little over two
miles like I was running him about my
best friend Tony and I were sitting
around talking about health and fitness
and we had both gotten really fit and
lost some weight and people started
asking us you know what were we doing
people really kind of surprised like
you're running so they were just asking
a lot of advice and we said you know we
should really start blogging about this
so we can give advice it's you know
culturally relevant and tell her friends
and family what we're doing I wanted to
run and I wanted to get good at it I
would not have stuck with it the woman
are very motivating and supportive black
girls run has grown tremendously in the
past year and I think a large part of
that is because of our extensive network
on Facebook and Twitter Facebook has
allowed us to kind of for people to
share the group's of their friends when
I'm in the right direction in different
cities in via Twitter it just kind of
goes viral I'm a little nervous but I'm
really excited to do this I've been
wanting to you know actually get in
shape we're gonna walk over to start the
run today we are on the national mall
right outside of the air and space
museum we meet here every Saturday and
rain or shine cold and hot weather and
get in between a three to five mile run
or walk about two years ago i
experienced a massive ms exacerbation
and was in a wheelchair for about three
months well I was able to move from a
wheelchair to a walker to a cane and now
it's really about making sure I don't go
back there
drive around and see people running and
think that's not me I can't do it i
found the couch to 5k program it was a
program that would gradually get you
into running and I thought I'd give it a
try did the program over nine weeks and
Here I am and it's women of all shapes
and sizes and all physical abilities and
we're running and we're moving a lot of
the females and black girls around they
post their mileage weekly they post
things they've done and I started to get
jealous and say okay well if they can do
it I can do it I love being a part of it
I love the camaraderie I don't have
family and friends that are as
encouraging on my running journey and I
know that I can always look to BGR to be
supportive especially at the races now
yes cheering squad and who doesn't need
a cheering squad how amazing is that